= Kubernetes Operational Tooling =
== Bridget Kromhout ==
== GOTO Chicago 2019 ==
== Tuesday Apr 30, 11:30 AM ==

Containers don't solve all problems
"Let's just containerize it" similar to "Let's just put it in the cloud"

Only do it if it solves a problem you have

"Kubernetes is an open-source platform designed to automate deploying, scaling,
and operating application containers"

- unified API surface
- JSON-based API
- often controlled with kubectl CLI

Pod: a collection of containers colocated on a single machine (they run your
application)
Target realized having sidecars and keeping things compartmentalized and in
different clusters is good.

Service: a load balancer which can route traffic to a collection of pods

Deployment: process of using a replica set to replicate a container multiple
times for availability or scale

All of the cloud providers have a managed kubernetes service. Simplify the
deployment, management, and operations of Kubernetes. Allows you to focus on
your containers not the infrastructure. Work how you want with open-source
APIs. Scale and run applications with confidence.

== Kubernetes Operability Toolin ==
Auther has used them and thinks they are ok

Terraform: deploy k8s clusters, pods, and services
*Question: do you have experience with kops?*
I guess kops is only AWS right now, and GCP in beta

Helm: The package manager for Kubernetes. A package manager (like apt or yum).
Use it on your applications or other applications to:
- manage complexity (Charts can describe complex apps, provide repeatable
  installs, and serve as a single point of authority)
- simple sharing. Charts are easy to version, share, and host
- rollbacks

Draft: Simple app development and deployment - into any kubernetes cluster.
Helm charts are so much yaml if you're only doing local dev. Will generate a
dockerfile and Helm chart for you.

Brigade: For ppl tired of yaml. Run scriptable, automated tasks in the cloud,
as part of your k8s cluster. K8s is designed to be declarative, but if you need
some dynamics, you can write some javascript in brigade to do stuff.

Kashti: A Simple UI to display build results and logs. Visualizations and web
dashboard to help inspect Brigade builds.

BTW: Theres are all lightweight, open source. Helm and Brigade are CNCF
projects.

At Dockercon last fall, CNAB is a spec for packaging distributed apps. Cloud
Native Application Bundle. Facilitate the bundling, installing, and managing of
container-native apps - and their coupled services.

Duffle

porter: Useful if you get serious of using CNAB. A friendlier cloud installer.
Install your app and its baggae. Can sign the packages if you have to install
in closed/on-prem/secure location

Open policy agent: policy-based control specified delcaratively and enforced
automatically. Integrates as a sidecar, host-level daemon, or library. Update
without recompiling or redeploying. Improve consistency, security, compliance.

=== Helm 3 ===
- deprecating tiller
- libraries, schematized values, and ext dir in charts
- lifecycle events
- embedded lua engine for scripting event handlers (beta)
- release and release version secret objects
- new helm controller project for pull-based workflows
http://helm.sh/blog
